(upbeat music)
- [Instructor] Now it's time for your code challenge.
I'm going to have you implement a much more complex DAO.
You'll create the DAO for the order domain.
In order to keep this time down a little bit,
I only want you to operate on the read action,
so the find by ID.
Create will require other domains to be completed,
and update and delete just don't add a lot of value
to what we're trying to learn here
when we're dealing with this complex domain.
Again, only the read operation.
Let me show you a little bit about
what the database itself looks like.
At the center of this is the orders record.
On the orders record, there are two values
that must be populated.
There's a customer ID and a salesperson ID.
We have a one-to-one join between those two.
For every order, there's an associated order item table.
That order item can have one or more
order items per order record.
But each order item will have one
and only one product record.
This is really the entity relationship
that we're going to build from.
To make your life just a little bit easier,
and because I want to make sure that you're not
focused on the SQL, instead, you're focused on the JDBC,
I've given you a query that you can use
to get the data out.
This makes some assumptions about what your object
is going to look like, but we'll go with that assumption
and you can adjust it as you see fit.
This query is such;
select from customer first name, last name, email.
From orders, the order ID creation date,
total due, and status.
From salesperson, first name, last name, email.
From order item, I do OL because that's how I name
my object, but order item dot quantity.
Then from product, I want the code, the name,
the size, the variety, and the price.
Then we're going to start all of this from orders.
We're going to join customer where the order dot customer ID
equals the customer dot customer ID.
We'll join salesperson where the order dot salesperson ID
equals the salesperson dot salesperson ID.
We're going to join order item
where the order item order ID
equals order dot order ID.
Then finally, we will join product
where the order item dot product ID
equals the product dot product ID.
All of this is going to be done where the order
dot order ID equals some value passed in.
That's a mouthful, but you can see the query here
and just copy it into your code
or modify it as you see fit.
I haven't focused on index or ordering of this.
This is really just a simple query to get you
past the SQL so you can get the concepts of JDBC.
Let's just wrap up real quick and review.
You're going to create a find by ID on an order DAO.
You're going to need to create the order object,
the order line or order item object,
so that you can iterate over those.
You're going to create the find by ID method
and you're going to unpack your result set
to create an order with one or more order items.
That's the challenge.
Get ready for my solution.
I'll give you a little time.